URL: https://gtfs.org/documentation/realtime/realtime-best-practices/
Original locator: ER12_RUNTIME/assessment/A6-01/control-v1/evidence/E05.txt
Original SHA256: 311c75752e7923b5ca4dfe33aa267f939ad9ffbc8bd89f4023b208066acea5d5
Original numbered lines; gaps omitted. Not full response.

209: GTFS Realtime Best Practices¶
210: Introduction¶
211: These are recommended practices for describing realtime public transportation information in the GTFS Realtime data format.
212: Document Structure¶
213: Recommended practices are organized into two primary sections
214: Practice Recommendations Organized by Message: Recommendations are organized by message and field in the same order described in the official GTFS Realtime reference.
215: Practice Recommendations Organized by Case: With particular cases, such as frequency-based service (vs. schedule-based service), practices may need to be applied across several messages and fields as well as the corresponding GTFS schedule data. Such recommendations are consolidated in this section.
216: Feed Publishing & General Practices¶
217: Feeds should be published at a public, permanent URL
218: The URL should be directly accessible without requiring a login to access the feed. If desired, API keys may be used but registration for API keys should be automated and available to all.
219: Maintain persistent identifiers (id fields) within a GTFS Realtime feed (e.g., FeedEntity.id, VehicleDescriptor.id, CarriageDetails.id) across feed iterations.
220: GTFS Realtime feeds should be refreshed at least once every 30 seconds, or whenever the information represented within the feed (position of a vehicle) changes, whichever is more frequent. VehiclePositions tend to change more frequently than other feed entities and should be updated as frequently as possible. If the content has not changed, the feed should be updated with a new FeedHeader.timestamp reflecting that the information is still relevant as of that timestamp.
221: Data within a GTFS Realtime feed should not be older than 90 seconds for Trip Updates and Vehicle Positions and not older than 10 minutes for Service Alerts. For example, even if a producer is continuously refreshing the FeedHeader.timestamp timestamp every 30 seconds, the age of VehiclePositions within that feed should not be older than 90 seconds.
222: The server hosting GTFS Realtime data should be reliable and consistently return validly-formatted protobuf-encoded responses. Fewer than 1% of responses should be invalid (protobuf errors or fetching errors).
223: The web-server hosting GTFS Realtime data should be configured to correctly report the file modification date (see HTTP/1.1 - Request for Comments 2616, under Section 14.29) so consumers can leverage the If-Modified-Since HTTP header. This saves producers and consumers bandwidth by avoiding transferring feed contents that haven't changed.
224: Feeds should provide protocol buffer-encoded feed content by default when queried via an HTTP request at the given URL - consumers should not need to define special HTTP accept headers to receive protocol-buffer encoded content.
225: Due to how protocol buffers encode optional values, before reading data from a GTFS Realtime feed consumers should check for the presence of values using the protocol buffer-generated hasX() methods before using that value and should only use the value if hasX() is true (where X is the name of the field). If hasX() returns false, the default value for that field defined in the gtfs-realtime.proto value should be assumed. If the consumer uses the value without checking the hasX() method first, it may be reading default data that wasn't intentionally published by the producer.
